create "Modifying existing components" draft (WIP) (#165)
wmde/wikit: docs/src/00-doc/02_modify_component.stories.mdx

### 1.1. Modifying tokens

Designers may detect the need to modify our token structure (regrouping, adding, deleting), or to correct token naming or values, all in order to capture and spread the system's visual patterns consistently. All changes to global and alias tokens will need to be performed by directly modifying the [JSON files that store them](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/tree/master/tokens/properties).

Changes may have different impact on versioning depending on the the type of token being modified, and on whether these are being used by published components:

| Modification  | Impact on versioning | Observations |
|---|---|---|
| Creating new global or alias tokens | No impact | |
| Updating the name of a global token | No impact | |
| Updating the name of an alias token | Impact | The value of the component-level tokens using the modified alias token will need to be updated to prevent breaking changes|

> ### 1.2. Modifying component

Author: ```suggestion
### 1.2. Modifying components
```

<Meta title="Documentation/How to modify existing components" />

# How to modify existing components

Our design system is a living organism that all Wikidata/Wikibase team members should contribute to grow and evolve. In some cases, that contribution will take place by the direct supply of a newly implemented component to the library. In other occasions, it will take the form of an improvement or a correction applied to an existing system component. 

Changes can be applied to existing library components whenever they don't perform as expected, or in case they don't reflect existing or new visual styles or interaction patterns documented by the Style guide and the component design specs.

> Depending on the type of modification needed, changes can be applied by modifying the system's ***design tokens*** – in case the visual style of components need to be corrected or updated – or by directly adjusting the ***component's code***. 

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on the type of modification needed, changes can be applied by adjusting the values of system's ***design tokens*** – in case the visual style of components need to be corrected or updated – or by directly modifying the ***component's code***. 
```

In these last two cases, whenever the modification of a component cannot be justified as a fix, the creation of a component variant must have been considered and dismissed before any changes are applied to the existing element. Also, the new interactive properties of the component must have been shared, documented and fully specified by the designer accountable for the modification before any implementation changes are applied, in accordance to the [design and handover process](/?path=/story/documentation-how-to-create-reusable-components-designing-components--page#3-design-handover).

You can access the existing component implementation in the [components folder](https://github.com/wmde/wikit/tree/master/vue-components/src) of the WiKit repository. Follow the standard component creation steps to proceed with your modification:

1. Open a PR with your changes and look at the UI Tests in Chromatic to check the results from the visual regression tests.
2. Ask UX for a review.
3. Ask a fellow developer for a technical review.
4. Make a new release after the PR is merged to master.

## 3. Releasing changes

> The person submitting the component modification request receives accountability for restablishing cosinstency, by making sure that all the applications using instances of the component are swiftly updated. The modification process cannot be considered concluded until the new release of the component library is not propagated into all consuming applications.

Author: ```suggestion
The person submitting the component modification request receives accountability for restablishing cosinstency: it is their responsability to make sure that all the applications using our component library are swiftly updated. In fact, the modification process cannot be considered concluded until the new release of the component library is not propagated into all consuming applications.
```
